something that's definitely going to
happen in the coming 5 year. Big job
disruption.
>> This is Thomas Wolf, co-founder and the
chief science officer of Hugging Face,
the open-source platform shaping the
future of AI. We met at Vivitech to talk
about the future of work and how to stay
ahead. What skills will actually matter
in the age of AI? How do you stay
relevant when entire industries are
being disrupted? And how close are we to
having robots inside our homes? So
what's your advice to people who are
studying for five years to do something
that might be disrupted?
>> Yeah, I would say the two advice I mean
one is definitely
>> Hello everyone welcome to Silicon Valley
girl. We have Thomas today who's
co-founder of hugging face. Thomas thank
you so much for being here.
>> Thanks for having me. It's a pleasure.
>> Please explain how can I a nontechnical
person use hugging face? Can you explain
the concept?
>> Okay so I mean to be clear is still
mostly done for technical people. Most
part of the website are made for
software developer who want to develop
something with AI.
>> So that's the the two we have three main
parts on the website. We have models
data set. You want to use them if you're
developing a new app with an AI
component and you don't want to use a
closed source solution like open AI
entropic but you want to be able to on
the full stack. You want to have an open
source solution like your open source
code.
>> So in this case you will go on on our
platform. you'll find select the right
model for your task for the for the for
the application or website you you're
building and you'll download it. But
there is one big part one big part of
the of the website that we created
recently and that's actually growing
exponentially which is much more
accessible and it's called AI apps.
>> It's kind of an app store of AI. So we
call that spaces these are very kind of
small website. You can go on huggy face
spaces. You have a search bar and
basically just type something you would
like to do with AI. You can type I don't
know I want to remove the background of
an image. I want to um
>> to get the speech for a text and written
like um 11 labs type of thing or I want
to uh you know generate a 3D character
out of an image. And here you will have
like spaces that are created by
community. You can select one and here
you have a very low code easy uh button
interface that lets you do this kind of
magical magical uh things basically. and
you use them on your platform or you can
migrate to your own app that you're
moving with. So the nice thing is you
can use that directly from the platform.
Then we provide the compute. It's like
website, right? You just if you want to
generate an image from a prompt like
midjourney. Yeah.
>> You type this. You'll have like a dozen
of them.
>> Some of them are more likes for
instance. So you you can select the more
popular one, the most popular one.
>> You go there, you type your prompt, you
get the image. Now let's say you want to
do that offline for instance. You can
also get clone the space. You can
download it and then you can run it on
your on your on your PC if it's
powerful. Depends a bit on the AI model.
Some of them are quite big, so you might
need a quite a large model. But
>> do I need a VIP coding app to make it an
actual app?
>> There is actually even one of the the
most popular space right now is a VI
vibe coding space. It's a free one. It's
called Deep Sight.
>> It's use the Chinese model Deep Seek,
which is a free free model, but it
doesn't run through the the Chinese
server, right? It's run locally. So, so
no, no worries about your prompts
getting uh getting through through the
people republic of China. Um, but this
is web coding one that you can also
download it and you can create website.
>> How do you think about ownership when
you use somebody else's like open source
code? For example, as a creator, I
decide to create an app where I generate
an image or like a character that I'm
gonna use later and I use that app to
create a character. Who ends up owning
it? if I decide to migrate it later for
my app, sell rights to Disney, etc. How
do you think about it?
>> The way I think about it is uh mostly
informed by what we have in code. So in
code we have this open-source movements
and I mean in a nutshell the idea of
open source is when you write some code
instead of just keeping it secret you
can also decide to share it with
everyone. You can put a license on it
and it's actually better to put to put
the license usually most of this license
the most popular right now are the MIT
or Apache license and what they will say
is something a little bit like Wikipedia
basically you can use it you can edit
the content but you're supposed to
credit uh the the original creator of
the code so basically just you know just
not take credit for yourself uh on
something that someone else has built.
You can have also more complex license
where you will ask, you know, people to
pay if they have a commercial
application or something like that.
Yeah. So,
>> it's just interesting for me like
because I've seen like for for example
in media sometimes you sell your image
like a photo to an agency for like $15
>> and they put it on all the billboards
cross country and make millions on it
and you're like damn and I sold it for
$15.
>> You have to accept that. Yeah. In
software we have the same problem which
is sometime you some people have created
amazing software that power actually
everything around us
>> including Linux or or in the scientific
computing you have you have something
very famous called numpy which every
pytor tortion which every everyone use
somewhere and these people have
definitely not earned even a very tiny
fraction of the business value that was
generated out of it so
>> do you think they're happy
>> I think a lot of people do that for the
mission they think that it's better to
maybe earn less but have something
that's freely accessible that everyone
can use without having to pay. I think
it's a bit choice because you can also
decide to to create a nice business and
company around an open source model
that's called open core. One idea is
that you open source a core base and
then the feature that are more
especially interesting for business
maybe around security maybe some
features around I don't know how you
integrate with additional business
>> then you you keep this private and make
people pay for that and the reasoning is
if you need this feature you're actually
making money so you can share
>> that makes sense that makes sense let's
take a quick break and talk about AI
agents if you're trying to figure out
how to actually use AI I agents in your
business, not just talk about them. I
have something for you. There is a new
guide from HubSpot that cuts through all
the AI noise. And honestly, it's one of
the most useful things I've seen on this
topic. The playbook for success in 2025
about AI agents is built by people
leading HubSpot's marketing, the CMO and
SVP. So, if you're running a team or
just trying to keep up, this is the
playbook. So, what's inside the guide?
So, first of all, they talk about
marketing. You'll see how AI agents can
help with content creation, social
posts, campaign analytics, all the stuff
that usually takes hours. This way, your
team can finally focus on ideas, not
grunt work. Then sales AI agents can do
the prep, research, meeting notes,
follow-ups, so your sales team can just
focus on closing. And third, in ops, AI
agents are of course super practical.
Agents can organize your talks, automate
boring admin, and give you realtime
insights without hiring extra people.
And the best part is that there is a
clear, simple plan inside how to pick
the right tools, set them up, and
actually get results fast. So, if you've
been wondering where to start with AI
agents or how to go from one experiment
to a full system, this is your road map.
I'll leave a link in the description
below. Download it for free. And by the
way, if you're building something in AI,
I'll be judging a HubSpot AI startup
pitch competition at Inbound this
September in San Francisco. The winner
gets $50,000 in cash and much more.
Applications close July 25th, so do not
wait. I would love to see your name
there and I would love to meet in
person. Thanks again to HubSpot for
sponsoring this video. Uh let's talk
about what hugging face would look like
in two or three years. So what I see
happening with the developer industry. I
started coding apps. I have no technical
background. Right. Uh do you feel like
people who code become less technical or
do you think people will get more and
more education in coding and because
they want to touch upon that and
integrate their apps and businesses?
>> That's a good question. I think we'll
see we'll see both I would say. So what
I definitely already see is a lot of my
nontechnical friends for inance
entrepreneur but they have like a
business background.
>> Yeah.
>> They definitely now play a lot with all
the vibe coding tools all the thing and
they and they definitely now create
apps. I have a good friends living next
door to me. He's an entrepreneur but
zero zero technical background. Now he
does all the time like lovable demo
things like that to to basically get the
first prototype of what he wants to
build. So, so I definitely see that
which is people that are nontechnical
who become user of this and actually
create very technical products. What I
also see is for instance my my son who
who likes to learn and he's learning
coding but very differently than me. So
the way he learns coding right now is he
will use this AI tool to generate stuff
and at some point when it doesn't work
that's where that start diving the code
and it's like oh okay now you start to
understand and the way I learned code
was much more I would learn the basics
and I would learn the second level and
so like very organized I think in a way
so they're learning that very
differently
>> but I don't think it's going to be less
technical in the end just it's just a
different way of learning where you
directly get some results Yeah.
>> But then because these tools have some
limitation, you still need to learn
coding. I think it will still
>> So we'll need more developers. Is that
what you're saying?
>> I think we also have a developer pool
that will grow.
>> Yeah.
>> Interesting. Uh let's talk about your
kids since you mentioned your son. Uh he
recently presented an app that he coded.
What are you teaching your kids?
>> Uh and how were you raising them so that
at 12 years old, they're already doing
something really cool?
>> Yeah, it's a big question, huh? Yeah, I
think I I don't pretend to have any
answer. I would say uh that that I'm
really certain of. Uh what I know I
think is there is some value that I
would still think will be timeless. Uh
one of them is kind of creativity and
basically you know not being afraid of
creating new things. Um because I think
in the future there will always be LLM.
What we see when we use them is that
they're still not very good at creating
really novel thing. They're very good at
doing what you can expect them to do.
They they're actually trained they're
trained to predict the most probable the
most likely next token, right? So when
you ask them something, they will create
the most likely thing. Often when you
want to really create something new and
you know that very well, I guess you
know when you when you create like a
video and you want something, you have
to be creative. You have to invent
something that's a bit out of the
ordinary. If you just do the same thing
as everyone, just nobody notices.
>> Absolutely.
>> And so these skills like this this uh
maybe fact of not being selfensored and
being creative.
>> We've been teaching trying to teach
creativity for quite some time. I think
in the US it's very it's very great.
>> There is some country in Europe and you
see that where it's actually very great.
One example is we were talking just just
recently about Stockholm and the Swedish
ecosystem.
>> They have a lot of focus on creativity
at school and I think it helps
>> maybe also bringing out great
entrepreneur like Danielle from Spotify,
Sebastian from CLA.
>> The French system is not the best for
creativity. We're like you're supposed
to learn
>> what's in the list and not not to go too
much out of the ordinary. So I think
probably you don't want to take too much
inspiration from just the French. and
you want to
>> Did you teach your kids to code? Did you
tell them like, "Hey, this is where you
have to be. This is the future. Like,
sit down and code."
>> Yeah, I tried, but it's always the thing
with kids. If you're too obviously
trying to push something,
>> this is going to say that's your thing,
that's not my thing. So, I tried just
very smoothly. So, one example, next
last Monday, I just brought in at a
conference with me and just seeing a
entrepreneur. He was like, "Oh, that's
very interesting." So just trying to I
think a way to see that is you can just
open their horizon just try to show them
a lot of things and not
>> not saying you have to do that but just
this is possible right
>> so it's the same with AI tools
>> you can just show them the tools
>> and then they use them if they found it
interesting or fun and then they will do
this themsel hopefully
>> and discover this tool themselves. I
know. I know. I'm like, so my my
daughters are four and five and I'm
like, what do I teach that? Like, what
is the world gonna look like? What do
you think the world's going to look like
five to 10 years?
>> It's going to be very different, huh?
Pretty sure. I mean, there will be
common things. I'm pretty sure there
will still be people talking, podcast
thing, because we really like human
interaction. I think this won't
disappear.
>> Uh, but we will have all this AI
automation. A lot of the work I do just
now, this this past few months has been
around robotics. Mhm.
>> And we just acquired a robotics company.
>> Is it going to be a commercial or
>> Yeah.
>> It's going to be very accessible robots
that can be used mostly by developer,
but I want to make it also something
that you could even use with your kids
to teach robotics if you want. One thing
I do like about robots, for instance,
give kind of physical presence to AI.
>> Yeah.
>> AI we just call it like even even Alexa.
We say, "Hey, Alexa." But you don't have
any idea.
>> Yeah. And I like the idea of having like
a physical and AI is here.
>> Yeah. You see some movement like it's
looking at this. I kind of like this.
>> Is it also going to be some like you
have a robot but then you go to hug and
face and you can upload all the open
source.
>> Exactly. And the cool thing is you can
teach things to your robots and you
upload them on hugging face and you can
share them with everyone in open source
way. One thing with the robots is they
can do you buy them, they can do like 20
things and then when you actually
explore them all, you just put the robot
inside and it's
>> but here if it's connected to an open
source repository that's growing with
people inventing new things, the robot
that helps you cook or the robots that I
don't know play with this or the robots
that can clean something and that share
them with everyone. You could have
something that actually grow with time.
>> So I'm very excited about that.
>> It looks like it's like kind of the
future Apple store, right? when you have
this device, but it's actually a robot
and you have all these apps that you can
also tailor for yourself like, hey, set
up cameras for me or whatever. Where's
the sound?
>> So, I'm pretty bullish that in in in
couple of years, we'll have quite a lot
of robots uh going around probably at
conference like this, you have you you
start to have a lot of them also
already. I saw um a buggy robot buggy at
the restaurant. I'm not sure.
>> There was one at the restaurant just
When I was having a baby, we had a robot
in our hospital in San Francisco.
>> I had to move things around.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. For like vetting,
whatever. When is the year when every
family I'm speaking for moms here who
hate laundry, when are we going to have
a robot uh in our household to help us
with daily things? How far are we from
that?
>> I think that the technology itself is
very close. I would say on the tech side
and the maybe prototyping demo.
I would guess next year can have some
stuff and then the main question is the
price of this thing and
>> price and regulation
>> price and regulation for sure.
>> Yeah,
>> there's two aspect the security aspect
will be very important for robots. I
mean there is question for safety in AI
but I mean saying a bad words you know
by ch is not the same as a robot like
you know making a punching something. So
there will be question like that. Uh,
but the second one is if this robot cost
like a $80,000 or something like that.
Um,
>> what do you think?
>> What do you think it's going to cost
next year? Like
>> the early one will still be like the
price of a car right now. I think you
need two hands that can grab things. So,
usually it's around 15 20k.
>> I would love to see them much cheaper.
>> Do you think there's going to be
subscription as well? Subscription.
>> That's also possible. Yeah, probably.
Probably it's going to be like that for
for the expensive one. But also I don't
think every robot has to be a humanoid.
At HuggyFace we only do open source
robotics. And the fun part about this is
we can make a platform that a lot of
people can use to develop different type
of robots. So it can be just one arm,
can be just a funny head that's move and
talk. Um can be just something that work
but has no arm. We made a robot duck
that just a duck that's walk around you.
It's very cute. So we can explore a lot
of form factors and see which one will
be actually the
>> the best in terms of price possibility
capabilities. Uh
>> how do you make sure that if someone
creates an open-source app for a robot
that it doesn't have this spy element
that monitors inside the house?
>> Yeah, that's a big question. I mean for
both models and robots already today
models I think one of the big advantage
of open source is you can download and
run them locally. So you download them
and then you can even the internet
server you can you can stop the Wi-Fi
and the thing is just cannot send
anything and it can run locally
>> that's something you can only do with
open source right now. So if you use
chatpt you have always to send a thing
>> and for robots I think it will be very
important if the Wi-Fi stop what does
your robot do okay I don't know it's
like loading the dishwasher just let the
let the fall I'm done
>> you want this thing to work you know
even when there is like a problem and
also you don't want them to communicate
too much I think you want privacy very
strong privacy with something that's in
your house
>> so just to sum it up you think next year
we're going to have robots who are
capable of doing things in a house and
then in five years I would have a robot
Yeah, I think next year we'll see two
thing on on the web on the on the LLM
we'll see agents that can do a lot of
task. We start to see that today. So a
lot of complex task we do on computer
will be automated. We see a beginning of
the same thing in the physical world
with robots starting to be able to do
some task really and this will just keep
keep growing uh growing with time and
maybe this the third trend that's that's
a bit more complex I think will be we
start to have really this photo
realistic content at scale. So video
that are indistinguishable of of reality
with sound that's also indist
indistinguishable and this will also be
a big question I think in my opinion the
optimistic way is um we'll pay more
attention to being uh face to face with
someone because we'll know it's a real
moment
>> and we know that every video call I
think can be actually a fake thing as
well.
>> So maybe uh giving more weight to to the
fact of being together in the same room
which is being more human in a way.
Yeah. So, our present is iPhones. I have
mine here. And a MacBook. In five years,
>> AI.
Do you see AI being in some piece of
tech? And if yes, what is it? Is it a
robot? Is it a wearable? Is it glasses?
>> Yeah, it's a good question. My view of
AI is um we have a big trends that
started last year, which is we can do a
much smaller AI models that are actually
very high performance. And so this means
you can start to embed them a bit
everywhere. There's a lot of people are
working on AI chips that will be much
more optimized, consume less energy. And
this according to me it points to a
future where you have like a yeah a bit
diffused everywhere just like
electronics you know we have electronics
in our camera in our smartphone and so
we'll get used to having basically all
our electronics system that just
understand
>> much better what we want to do.
>> Let's wrap up with this question.
Imagine we're here in five years and uh
can you talk about the wildest thing
that's going on in the world in five
years?
>> Yeah, one of my most exciting uh
direction right now in AI is uh using
all the techniques we've learned to
train good AI models. So can a train
intelligence model applying that to
other field of research, applying that
to discovering new materials for
battery, applying that to you know
weather prediction, applying that to uh
fusion uh fusion energy, you know. So my
hope is in five years we'll we'll have
some of these things that are maybe not
just a chatbot. A chatbot is nice but
it's not like changing the world in a
way like it's not you know inventing
things that make us actually solve big
big challenge right and so all these
things that I grew them generally in the
idea AI plus science so you take very
smart AI models or the you take just
knowledge we have around this model and
try to apply that to a scientific field
where you can do a fundamental
breakthrough I think this is something
that excite me a lot
>> you think cancer will be cured
>> yeah these kind of things right
>> cancer I'm not sure because it seems
like the more they look in deeper the
more it's kind of a very complex uh but
definitely some some disease and also
definitely material science there is
some super exciting developments. Mhm.
>> Material science is kind of this unsexy
scientific you know field that actually
can change a lot of things because it
unlock smart batteries like carbon
dioxide um trapping all these type of
things that can be fundamental in you
know just
>> solving huge problem like climate change
>> in five years what do you think about
unemployment a lot of people are worried
about that when it comes to
>> I think there is two two main trends uh
one that they used to be for long time
in this was um yeah we unlock so much
creativity
start from kids you know when I do vibe
coding with my kids they have a lot of
ideas for website a website to connect
we did like a website to share your cats
with other people like a lot of things
or like website to connect like amate
football player with scouts so they they
have all of this idea and I'm like this
is great and and all of this could even
be like potential
>> companies or something like that so so
you have this website where basically
because it's make a lot of things very
accessible. A lot of people can become
entrepreneur basically.
>> But it's also true that not everyone
wants to be an entrepreneur like people
uh some people don't. And then I'm
wondering because I was a former lawyer
before starting huggy face. I was for 6
years in a in a intellectual property
and it's true that this field are going
to be very strongly disrupted by AI like
there's a lot of like support function
that are that are currently handled by
by many people that can definitely fall
in the scope that AI can do and it's
also field where you study like you do
quite long studies so you've studied
five six eight years for your job so
it's not like you're going to jump
directly to a new field right
>> so this type of uh this type of
profession
is the big question for me is how can
you handle that? It's also a topic that
I think very few governments or very few
like you know think tank are really
currently tackling like a lot of people
I feel like are more like let's not look
too much at this let's talk about I
don't know the danger of AGI you know
ruling the world instead of just
something that's definitely going to
happen in the coming five year which is
big job disruption in some in some
>> so what's your advice to people who are
studying for five years to do something
that might be disrupted
>> yeah I would say the two advice. I mean,
one is definitely use these tools
because and try to see what they are
capable of because you want to become
the master of this tool, right? And you
want to to to be able to use them in
your in your profession. So, you you
have to stay in touch with this
revolution. You cannot just ignore it.
And the second one would be um yeah
start to to see if you don't if you
don't want to be very creative and you
know like what is once once you start
using this tool what do you feel is the
remaining exciting part of your job and
is it something you you're actually
really happy to do and if not I think
it's time to to see if you don't want to
to create something new if you don't
want to start something new.
>> Yeah. And that was the first you said
you you had two two opinions on that. So
the first
>> Yeah. I mean the first one is everyone
become an entrepreneur basically.
>> Yeah. But I think the second one is is
kind of dependent which is I'm not sure
everyone wants to become an
entrepreneur. So here I don't have a
great answer. I think I think this is
something that should be probably
tackled as a the society. It should be
already being discussed in the
government.
>> It's obviously tied to I don't know uni
universal bas basic income but also yeah
do you want to do that or like maybe
we're moving to a society some friends
also think we're moving to a society
where entertainment is going to be the
main thing we create and consume as
human. So um this is possible future
society.
And there's also a big question there
which is um
are we not going to lose a little bit of
something of being human if we automate
so much of our life? I don't really have
a big answer.
>> You had that with uh uh the GPS is a
good example. Right. So now
>> yeah we can't read often. We don't
really know where we are really in the
city because it's so easy to be
>> guided by the machine.
>> Absolutely.
>> So we definitely lost a little bit of
something.
>> This is all very interesting. Thank you
so much. It's an amazing conversation. I
don't know. I I try to stay excited
about the future, especially now you
mentioned content creators being the
driving force. Thank you so much for
being here. It was really inspiring.
>> Thanks. So the finished cushion.